# Brandon Hindman's Data Analyst Portfolio

Hey! Thanks for stopping by my Git. This repository contains some examples of  SQL I have written while working through SQL certified online courses. Below are some projects I have completed including some data visualization through Tableau. Please feel free to look through this collection of example projects and [reach out](https://www.linkedin.com/in/brandon-h123/) if you have any questions or feedback.

## SQL Projects
* **Global Youtube Statistics '23** - [SQL](https://github.com/BrandonHGit/Data-Analyst-Portfolio/blob/main/Youtube%20Global%20Statistics%20'23.sql): In this project I used a dataset from Kaggle.com to analyze trends of the top ~1,000 most popular Youtube channels as of August 2023. I created the database repository as well as a table for importing of the dataset in PgAdmin4. I began probing basic questions such as 'What are the 10 most popular channels based on subscribers?'.

## Tableau Dashboards
* **Global Youtube Statistics '23** - [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/brandon.hindman/viz/YoutubeGlobalStatistics23_Top10PACKED/Dashboard1?publish=yes): Utilizing the same dataset from Kaggle.com, I created a dashboard which compared two packed bubble charts: 1) the top 10 channels based on subscription count and 2) the top 10 channels based on monthly revenue in order to compare channel types (music, entertainment, gaming, etc.). Of interest, the subcategory of 'Entertainment' has the highest representation across both subscriber count and monthly earnings. However, there is a distinct lack of overlap for those channels with the highest subscriber count and those channels with the highest monthly revenue. For instance, of the top 10 subscribed to channels only three channels are also top monthly earners: T-Series, Cocomelon - Nursery Rhymes, and SET India.

*  **Canada CO2 Emissions** - [Tableau](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/brandon.hindman/viz/CanadaCO2Emissions_16922201387280/CO2EmissionsinCanada?publish=yes): Utilizing a sample dataset from Kaggle.com, I created a dashboard which compared CO2 emissions recorded in Canadian provinces. The map displays all provinces and post-codes for which CO2 emission data is available. The bar chart on the right contains a further breakdown of CO2 emissions within all provinces. Given Alberta contained the greatest CO2 emissions, I created a subsequent bar chart breaking down which post-codes presented the highest CO2 emissions exclusive to the province of Alberta. From this we can glean that the post-code 'T9H' obtains the greatest CO2 emissions in Alberta, and subsequently all provinces of Canada. Of interest, the cause of this CO2 emission spike is specific to the oil deposits located around Fort McMurray known as the [Athabasca oil sands](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Athabasca_oil_sands).
